Welcome back everyone.
So in the last lesson we learn how to optimize our reactor components.
But in the beginning of the lesson I mentioned that there is a chance that when you pass in a inline
function to a component that because in JavaScript functions are also objects you are always instantiating
a new function meaning that it could get around your memo wise component.
Well in this lesson we are going to take a look at how we can actually memorize our functions so that
we don't call them and re render them unnecessarily.
If we do not have to.
Now what do I mean by this.
Well let's look at this test application where I've rewritten it so that it can demonstrate to us different
ways that functions might behave and how we can optimize them so we have this Functional Component and
inside of it we have defined using you state to different state values.
There is a count one and a count two which are pretty much just integers that start off at 0 we use
the account and set count to to define these increment functions that simply increase the count of our
count one and count two values by one.
That's all this function does then we have this function called log name.
And this function is simply a console log that calls out my name Iva ignoring the section for now what
we show then inside of our read turn of this function is just two buttons that increment the counts
and then one button that increments or that calls the log name console log in my name.
Now what I've done here to demonstrate this to you is I have instantiated this new javascript collection
called a set.
Now what asset is in Javascript is it is a collection object which is similar to an array.
The only difference is that whenever you add anything to the set it only will add it to the list if
it's unique meaning that if we add the same function or the same object into it and the reference already
exists inside of this array then it won't add it which means that as long as we're adding new reference
by memory objects then the set will increase.
If we don't then we're just going to end up adding the same function but with a different place of memory.
So as you remember with objects objects can look at the exact same as other objects in terms of its
properties or in terms of its shape but if it's a new object that gets instantiated that it has a different
reference in memory.
So set is a way for us to actually keep track of whether or not we're generating new functions or if
we're keeping the same function that has the same reference in memory.
So what we do is that whenever our functional component renders all of this is going to get recalled.
But what we're doing is we're adding in to this set our log name.
And why am I doing this.
Well technically speaking when ever we increase the count here we are calling sets they are a component
which will cause it to render the moment a re renders.
It's also going to re render our log name function when it renders our log name function.
It's going to read add that function into this array or the set so that whenever we actually see that
we increase and call that state that set is getting larger and it keeps passing new functions in because
we're enlightening this function inside of our functional component.
We are therefore generating this function new every single time on every single render.
But this is a costly thing because this function does not need to be right regenerated.
It doesn't need to render a new version.
This function already is something that doesn't have any dependencies and it doesn't change right.
There's no properties coming in.
Why do we need to re instantiate this function well this is actually exactly what the use callback hook
is for the use callback hook allows us to memorize a virgin of a function that we wrap in it and use
that same function if it already exists.
Now it takes two arguments The first argument is the function we want to memorize.
The second argument is an array of dependencies just like our use affect hook.
The only difference is that this array is mandatory with the use callback hook now because of course
our function has zero dependencies.
We can simply pass an empty array but there will be instances where we do need to pass in a dependency.
And I'll show you in a little bit but let's save this now.
And let's now double check.
Now we'll see what happens is that my function still works but whenever i click income account and whenever
my R3 renders we're not actually adding in a new function anymore because this function every time it
gets called to add this value is using the mama Y's version of the function now.
So the reference has not changed for this function and this is really good for us because now we're
no longer costly in generating a new log name function.
Whenever our app component renders so if we wanted to test this with the actual dependencies the person
we can actually do it with these two functions here instead of adding log name what I'm gonna do is
log increment 1 and also add increment to and then what I'm going to do is I am going to wrap these.
Actually I'm not going to wrap them yet.
Let's just see what happens wherever we click increment.
So we see that we have two functions and when we instantiate because when our component renders for
the first time they get added in but when I click increment count you'll see that I'm adding both the
functions in because both functions are getting re rendered.
And as we just learned this is the behavior to expect because we're not using our use callback cook
but now if we wrap this in our use callback hook
and we pass in an empty array we'll actually see that there will be a problem.
So what is happening here if we start hitting our income account we see that it's not working right.
While it does increment the first time on an issue ization it's not actually increasing the county more.
Even though technically speaking our function is not getting added in.
So these are our functions and they're not getting regenerated.
The reason for this as you can see from this error or warning is because we're missing a dependency
inside of our use callback here or use callback and knows that this function is dependent on count one
which is some variable outside of this function scope this count one is actually what gets generated
as the function's definition when we instantiate this function.
Meaning that this function knows that whenever this function gets invoked it's saying I'm going to use
the set count one function but I'm going to set it to whatever count one is currently when this function
gets called or initialize for the first time.
So if Kelvin was zero then this value is zero.
So our function is led by a function that says I'm going to set count 1 2 0 plus 1 so after that instantiate
and our component renders because our account 1 has been updated so a local state gets updated a component
renders it's going to check and see when it's re initializing this function it's going to say oh wait
there's no dependencies inside of this array for use callback which means that I should never have to
read create this function because the dependency array only says the only time I want you to create
a new array is if any of the values inside of this array changes.
But now we're stuck with a function that always sets count one equal to the first time count one was
instantiated which was when it was 0 so if I now instead pass in count 1 AS THE dependency then we'll
see that are called works the way we want it to because now when I click increased count 1 we see that
our value is increasing but we also see that I'm adding in the appropriate count one function that is
new because when this value updates count one more set go into this array and it'll say oh I want to
re instantiate this function but count 1 has it changed has the dependency count on changed while it
has because we've incremented the value the last time we clicked this increment count one function meaning
that I need to generate a new function but then when we go to increment count 2 it's going to say OK
has the dependency in this function changed it hasn't because count 2 has stayed the same.
Only count 1 has changed so that I don't need to create a new function here.
Meaning that the function add fails because this original function from when we first instantiated our
increment count 2 has not changed therefore it only adds the new set count 1 functions that get generated
due to the changing value of count one when ever we increment this count so hopefully this makes some
sense because this used callback is definitely useful inside of our functional components whenever we
have to declare inline functions inside of this component definition because on every render we will
end up instantiate the function multiple times.
So this is just something that we have to keep in mind when building applications that are using classless
components now in the next lesson we're going to talk about use memo which is very similar to use callback
but use just ever so slightly differently.
So I will see you in the next lesson.